README.md, before:

# TensorFlow Object Detection API for Stanford Cars

I am trying to use Google's TensorFlow Object Detection API [0] to detect 196 vehicles types in the Stanford Cars dataset [1]. I'm currently having issues getting this to work with multiple classes. Examples on the web [2][3] use only a single class and appear to work well but I can't seem to find any multiclass examples. As a car detector, the Object Detection API works on the cars dataset.

## Getting Started

Download the Stanford Cars dataset from the link below.
```
http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/car_ims.tgz
```

Clone this repo.
```
$ git clone https://github.com/deanwetherby/tf_oda_stanford_cars
$ cd tf_oda_stanford_cars
```

Create the train and test tfrecords from the Stanford Cars annotations. Making pbtxt label file contains hard-coded paths but the labels file is already provided for you.

```
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_tf_record.py --data_dir=/data/StanfordCars --set=train --output_path=stanford_cars_train.tfrecord
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_tf_record.py --data_dir=/data/StanfordCars --set=test --output_path=stanford_cars_test.tfrecord
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_label_map.py
```

(Optional) Test create of tfrecords by dumping the data to a folder. Filename is currently hard-coded in the python script.
```
(tf) $ python dump.py
```

## TensorBoard screenshot

![tensorboard evaluation](tensorboard_stanford_cars.png)


## References

```
[0] TensorFlow Object Detection API, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/object_detection
[1] Stanford Cars, https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html
[2] Raccoon Detector, https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-train-your-own-object-detector-with-tensorflows-object-detector-api-bec72ecfe1d9
[3] Toy Detector, https://towardsdatascience.com/building-a-toy-detector-with-tensorflow-object-detection-api-63c0fdf2ac95
```

Commit message:

Adding pipeline config and tweaking readme

README.md, after:

# TensorFlow Object Detection API for Stanford Cars

I am trying to use Google's TensorFlow Object Detection API [0] to detect 196 vehicles types in the Stanford Cars dataset [1]. I'm currently having issues getting this to work with multiple classes. Examples on the web [2][3] use only a single class and appear to work well but I can't seem to find any multiclass examples. As a car detector, the Object Detection API works on the cars dataset.

## Getting Started

Download the Stanford Cars dataset from the link below.
```
http://imagenet.stanford.edu/internal/car196/car_ims.tgz
```

Clone this repo.
```
$ git clone https://github.com/deanwetherby/tf_oda_stanford_cars
$ cd tf_oda_stanford_cars
```

Create the train and test tfrecords from the Stanford Cars annotations. Making pbtxt label file contains hard-coded paths but the labels file is already provided for you.

```
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_tf_record.py --data_dir=/data/StanfordCars --set=train --output_path=stanford_cars_train.tfrecord
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_tf_record.py --data_dir=/data/StanfordCars --set=test --output_path=stanford_cars_test.tfrecord
(tf) $ python create_stanford_cars_label_map.py
```

(Optional) Test create of tfrecords by dumping the data to a folder. Filename is currently hard-coded in the python script.
```
(tf) $ python dump.py
```

## Train

I have trained using various networks such as faster rcnn and ssd mobilenet (v1 and v2). All exhibit the same issue. In this repo is the faster rcnn pipeline.config used for one of the training sessions.


```
(tf) $ python ~/workspace/models/research/object_detection/train.py --logtostderr --pipeline_config_path=models/faster_rcnn_resnet50_coco_2018_01_28/pipeline.config --train_dir=output
```

## Eval

Evaluate the trained model.

```
(tf) $ python ~/workspace/models/research/object_detection/eval.py --logtostderr --pipeline_config_path=/home/HQ/dwetherby/workspace/stanford_cars/models/ssd_mobilenet_v1_coco_2017_11_17/pipeline.config --eval_dir=/home/HQ/dwetherby/workspace/stanford_cars/eval --checkpoint_dir=/home/HQ/dwetherby/workspace/stanford_cars/output 
```

I run tensorboard to during eval to watch the localization and the classification prediction. Boxes seem to work well but the model picks a single class for every training session and all vehicles become that single class. The screenshot below shows an interation where every vehicle was classified as an Audi R8.

### TensorBoard screenshot

![tensorboard evaluation](tensorboard_stanford_cars.png)


## References

```
[0] TensorFlow Object Detection API, https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/object_detection
[1] Stanford Cars, https://ai.stanford.edu/~jkrause/cars/car_dataset.html
[2] Raccoon Detector, https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-train-your-own-object-detector-with-tensorflows-object-detector-api-bec72ecfe1d9
[3] Toy Detector, https://towardsdatascience.com/building-a-toy-detector-with-tensorflow-object-detection-api-63c0fdf2ac95
```
